The African National Congress Youth League has condemned the South African government of dragging its feet in resolving the killing of the organisation s leaders and whistleblowers in Mpumalanga province and issued a fresh call for a commission to investigate the killings. The ANC, as part of a government is not dealing with the issue with the urgency it deserves. We need a commission of enquiry to be established to investigate the killings. It can be a joint task team, in which we can participate if needs be, because there s an atmosphere of fear and intolerance in that province, said ANCYL spokesperson, Khusela Sangoni-Khawe. The renewed calls for an investigation into the Mpumalanga killings follow the recent murder of former ANCYL regional secretary in the Lower South Coast region of KwaZulu-Natal province, Wandile Mkhize. In sharp contrast to the Mpumalanga killings, almost the entire ANC leadership, led by president Jacob Zuma, descended on KwaZulu-Natal province to pay their last respects to Mkhize, there were no high profile leaders at the funeral of former Mbombela municipality speaker, Jimmy Mohlala. Mohlala was killed outside his home in January 2009 after exposing corruption in the issuing of contract for the construction of Mbombela stadium. He was due to open a fraud charge against Lefika Emerging Equity, a company owned by Kaizer Chiefs boss, Bobby Motaung. He was also due to testify against former Mbombela municipal manager, Jacob Dladla. Former Mbombela municipality executive mayor, Lassy Chiwayo. Dladla eventually fired Dladla, however, earlier this year, the newly elected Mbombela council paid him a golden handshake of over R3 million. Lefika Emerging Equity s CEO Chris Gribb, skipped the country following the exposure that the company had received a fraudulent tax clearance certificate which they used to bid for the stadium and other tenders at the Mbombela municipality. In January 2010, another high profile killing which claimed the life of department of culture, sports and recreation spokesperson, Sammy Mpatlanyane. This was after blew the whistle on corruption relating to the tender for the construction of the Mpumalanga archives building. In January 2011, former Ehlanzeni district municipality chief whip, Johan Ndlovu was also murdered under mysterious circumstances. One person, Life Khoza, was sentenced to 35 years after entering a plea bargain, wherein he cleared his co-accused of any wrongdoing. Last month, however, it emerged that one of his co-accused, Mundi Khoza, had confessed that current speaker of Ehlanzeni district municipality, Milton Morema, of organising the hit. This prompted the ANC in Bohlabela region calling for his removal from his position. Morema has denied the allegations against him and he accused his the ANC region of politically moering him. I was not arrested, I was never tried, these [suspects] don t even know me. Why say I must step down? I personally believe the decision is uneducated and uncalled for, this is just their way of politically moering (assaulting) me, said Morema. Investigative journalists who have been reporting about corruption have also been receiving death threats. City Press investigative journalist, Sizwe SamaYende, was accosted by a gun-wielding man as he entered his house, but managed to escape unharmed. He also had his vehicle brakes tempered with, but to date the would-be assailants have not been arrested. SamaYende exposed an alleged attempt by premier David Mabuza s ex-spin doctor, Mabutho Sithole, to prevent him from publishing a tender scandal article which linked Mabuza to Malawian businessman, Patrick Chirwa. Sithole allegedly paid SamaYende R5000 and is on trial for corruption. In 2010, SACP central committee member, Madala Masuku, who is also the member of the executive council (MEC) for human settlements had his vehicle shot at and robbed by men who were armed with police issued rifles. When Mpumalanga premier forgot to send a sympathy message to Masuku, the SACP s provincial secretary called for Mpumalanga premier s resignation. It was not long before Majuba himself had to receive 24 hour protection after it was discovered that his vehicle was being followed by another with dark tinted windows and false registration plates. Notwithstanding that those who have been killed were either ANC or SACP members, the ANC s provincial secretary, Lucky Ndinisa, has denied that the Mpumalanga killings were politically motivated. However, following Ndlovu s death last year, former police commissioner, Bheki Cele appointed a twelve member investigation team to probe the Mpumalanga killings. This was after the Congress of South African Trade Unions had threatened to take to the streets against the killings. The team, however, only stayed in the province for about three months and left. Cele was subsequently removed from his position, and no report has ever been released on the findings of the investigation team. The ANCYL expressed its concern that the outcome of the investigation by the task team has not been made public. The league called on the newly appointed national commissioner of the South African police, Ms Mangwashi Phiyega to release the report. We are concerned that nothing is said what the findings were. We think the new (national) commissioner will release the report to the public, said Sangoni-Khawe. Efforts to get comment from the national commissioner of police proved fruitless. I still have no response from the MP head of the Hawks, said Hawks spokesperson, McIntosh Polela.