2016 - The Year In Review 2016 Jan 15 Mpumalanga s top student The province s best learner, Sumaiya Jeewa, from Middelburg Muslim School was this year s recipient of a Toyota Aygo and several other prizes. Feb 12 Department suspends officials Department of Human Settlements has confirmed that the officials have been suspended and face an internal disciplinary hearing for financial misconduct. Feb 19 ANC leader defects to EFF Former Ehlanzeni regional executive member Sipho Monareng, who led the Save Mpumalanga ANC movement, joined to the Economic Freedom Fighters Feb 26 ANCYL s Sasekani joins legislature On 18 February ANCYL s provincial secretary Sasekani Manzini was sworn in as a member of the provincial legislature, replacing ANC backbencher Basani Violet Nkuna, who resigned . Feb 26 MECs are useless, looters African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) deputy president Desmond Moela has accused MECs in Mpumalanga of being useless and looters. Mar 04 EFF member stabbed at SOPA Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) member Nduduzi Mnisi, from Hazyview, is stabbed during Premier David Mabuza&#8217;s State of the Province Address (Sopa). Mar 27 ANC s fake defection ritual Members of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in Mpumalanga claim ANC coerced into a fake defection ritual against their will. Apr 08 Mabuza, SACP smoke peace pipe ANC provincial chairperson apologises for the hardships he caused to activists due to his differences with the South African Communist Party (SACP). Apr 15 ANC borrows from apartheid scripture On March 31 Constitutional Court ruled that President Jacob Zuma failed to uphold, defend and respect the Constitution. The ANC says its rule comes from God, quoting from Roman Chapter 13, the same scripture that the apartheid government used to justify apartheid rule. May 13 Mandela s R3 million video vanishes The R3 million video that Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza s office paid for using taxpayer s money as part of the province s R70 million memorial services for late former President Nelson Mandela does not exist May 13 Illegals will sh*t themselves A Mpumalanga MEC threatened to deport illegal immigrants who participated in a mass protests, saying bazonya. May 27 Mandela s R4,5m unaccounted for Leaked documents reveal that Mpumalanga premier s office authorised the payment of R4,5 million to Carol Bouwer Productions (CBP), for an unidentified service as part of the province s R70 million splurge for the late president Nelson Mandela memorial services in 2013. Jun 24 Nkomazi municipality bans Malema Nkomazi local municipality has barred the leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), Julius Malema, from using a municipal stadium to address his supporters ahead of the local government elections. Jun 30 Clash at Lily Mine ANC and EFF supporters clash at march to demand the resumption of rescue operation for three Lily Mine employees trapped underground Jun 30 Probe killings, say widows Mpumalanga&#8217;s political widows, Pinky Mpatlanyane and Bony Mohlala want fresh probe into the killing of their husbands &#8211; Sammy and Jimmy respectively. This, after premier David Mabuza claimed he knew who was behind political killings. Jul 29 SACP picket locked out SACP pickets outside SABC offices. Mbombela City Centre and SABC management agree to lock the picketers out of the premises. Jul 30 The Chief Spy at work JULY 2016 &#8211; THE SPY minister for state security, David Mahlobo taking his job very seriously at an election rally in Mbombela, squeezed himself between the chairs of ANC president Jacob Zuma and ANC provincial chairperson David Mabuza. Aug 12 Mabuza removes 4 MECs Premier David Mabuza axes four MECs saying this was in response to dissatisfaction that the people of the province had raised. Sep 09 Legislature s tender family Legislature exposed for getting quotes from only two companies belonging to a couple, Nontokozo Manyisa, and her husband, Eddy Mabuza, who have alleged links to the legislature secretary, Linda Mwale. Sep 23 Speaker s lap of luxury Legislature exposed after buying two luxury SUV vehicles costing almost R3 million for speaker Thandi Shongwe in 14 months. The other vehicle disappears after returning from panel beaters. Page 1 of 2 1 2 &raquo;