More than 20 witnesses are expected to testify in the R140 million fraud case against former head of the Mpumalanga community safety, security and liaison department Thulani Sibuyi when the case resumes in May 2014. Sibuyi, 37, and his co-accused, GNT security owner Vusi Mashaba, 41, appeared in the Nelspruit Regional Court on Wednesday. The state is ready for trial. The defence have been handed the list of witnesses and the disclosure of the docket has been made. They are aware of the final charges faced by their clients,&#8221; state prosecutor Advocate Patrick Nkuna. &#8220;The state intends to bring more than 20 witnesses which the defence has been furnished with. The state is asking that the accused not directly or indirectly contact or threaten the witnesses and we are asking for that to be made an order.&#8221; Sibuyi and Mashaba handed themselves to the Nelspruit police on August 8 after a warrant of arrest was issued for them. They were released on R50 000 bail each. The two have not pleaded to the various charges they face. Sibuyi is facing charges of fraud while Mashaba is facing charges of fraud, forgery and uttering. Magistrate Eddie Hall postponed the case to May 7 to 9 next year for trial. &#8220;You are warned to return for trial and you are also warned to not directly or indirectly contact the witnesses which the state has already disclosed to you. &#8220;If it happens that you want to do business with the department and may contact some of the witnesses you are warned to inform the state first, said Hall. Nkuna previously told the court that Mashaba, on behalf of his company GNT, submitted a fraudulent tax certificate when applying for a tender to provide security to government property or entities around the Gert Sibande region. Nkuna further said Sibuyi failed to stop the appointment as an accounting officer leading to GNT illegally benefiting payments of R4 million per month for three years. Last month, Sibuyi resigned as HOD after he was arrested in Gauteng for drunk and driving charges. He is out on R1 000 bail in the Gauteng case and is expected back in the Kempton Park Magistrate&#8217;s Court once the laboratory releases the results of his blood tests.