Lemon &amp; Herb, formed by Don Jobe, Skhumbuzo Radebe and Thamsanqa Ntintili is a group of young men who are passionate beyond reasonable doubt about house music. They are young, vibrant and passionate about the art of producing music and those are just some of the most merited words you should think of when describing Lemon &amp; herb, a music production trio hailing from KwaZulu Natal, South Africa. The trio was brought together by their passion for house music in 2005 while still at university pursuing qualifications in electrical and mechanical engineering at Durban University of Technology. Despite their demanding varsity schedule, they always found time to listen to the latest music and get into studio to make their own sound. They finally released their very first single in 2010 which was remixed by renowned American producer N dinga Gaba. They have recently broadened their belt by adding DJ ing as one of their skills in the musical sphere, this not only shows how hard working the trio is but it also proves just how dedicated they are to make a mark in the music industry. Although their music is predominantly produced in Xhosa and English, they are intent on producing music that is relatable to everyone who listens to it. Through their label Mixed In Motion they released an extended player (EP) called Lazarus Missions in July 2016 and a single called How To Do This Thing was released in November 2016 which is now available on iTunes and Google Play to listen and download. The Lemon &amp; Herb trio is no stranger to working with international artists such as Boddhi Satva and Lars Behrenroth which is why you are rest assured that this musical trio knows their way around producing good music. The band promises nothing but exceptional music and this is evident from their win of the Atjazz South African Remix competition which opened several doors for them. Having Louie Vega list one of their songs Velani in his top 5 favourite songs in 2012 spurred them on to do more. House music lovers experienced the trio s talent at the second annual Sbusiso Leope Education Foundation (S.L.E.F) benefit concert on the 4th of March 2017 at Moriting Park. Lemon &amp; Herb is passionate about promoting equal education opportunities to South African young people who have achieved good marks in matric, which is why 100% of the proceeds from this concert will go towards assisting these students with tertiary education fees. Twitter and Instagram: @Lemonnherb Facebook: Lemon N Herb and Lemon &amp; Herb (fan page)