Mpumalanga s highest lawmaking official has denied being the biological father to the owner of a company that keeps getting contracts from the provincial legislature. The denial follows accusations that provincial legislature secretary, Linda Mwale, played a role in the procurement of two contracts involving his alleged daughter, Nontokozo Manyisa, and her husband, Eddy Mabuza. According to documents that were leaked to the media, the legislature appointed Luthando-Nto General Trading on February 4, 2016, to supply billboards for the advertisement of the State of the Province Address (SOPA) at the cost of R299 050,70. Almost two weeks later, the same company was appointed to supply billboards for the Taking The Legislature to the People (TLP) in the Bushbuckridge Local Municipality at the cost of R46 170. On both occasions the same two companies, Luthando-Nto General Trading and Ndende Investment, were invited to submit quotations. The documents reveal that Luthando-Nto belongs to Manyisa while Ndende Investment belongs to Mabuza, her spouse. In response to the allegations, legislature spokesperson, Zamagambu Memela-Gamede, said Mwale has denied knowing Manyisa. As the Legislature, we cannot confirm or deny the information stated above as according to the Legislature records we do not have such information. Further, Mr Mwale has indicated that he has no knowledge of Nontokozo Ayanda Manyisa and has no relationship what-so-ever with her, she said, in a written response. When asked if she had any relationship with Mwale, Manyisa declined to confirm or deny any relationship. I don t have any comment for that, she said. Mabuza, however, lambasted this journalist for enquiring about his alleged relationship to Manyisa and Mwale. I am not a database, I am not CIPRO (Commission for Intellectual Property Commission), I am not the Home Affairs (department). I don t have a comment for you, said Mabuza, before hanging up. However, a few days later, Mabuza sent an SMS requesting this journalist to send the questions in writing in order to provide what he called a formal response. The response was never sent. According to Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader in the provincial legislature, Collen Sedibe, nepotism involving government contracts was rife in Mpumalanga. It is a common phenomenon in the legislature and all the provincial departments for senior officials to use or consider their family or relatives companies to steal government money, he said. Sedibe said the EFF had also become aware that Mwale s family was allegedly benefitting from legislature contracts. Luthando-Nto General Trading is a company that is continuously awarded tenders in the legislature because of its link to the Secretary of the Legislature. The Director of the company is the biological daughter of Mr Linda Mwale who is the Accounting Officer of the provincial Legislature, said Sedibe. At least in one of the instances, the quotation was submitted long after the closing date. Luthando-Nto and Ndende Investment s quotations are dated December 11, 2015, while the third quotation is dated January 13, 2016. Memela-Gamede said the reason for the third quotation to be submitted only on January 13, 2016, was because some of the quotations received by the closing date did not meet the requirements. The Legislature Offices were closing for business on the 15 December 2015 and were to re-open early January in 2016. On the closing date a number of quotations received did not meet the requirements of the SCM Policy and the process could only be resuscitated in January 2016, hence some quotation (sic) were received in January 2016. Also note that each quotation remains valid for the period of 30 days, she said. On the contrary, the leaked documents show that the quotation from Ndende Investment (Pty) Ltd states that it was only valid for seven days. Mwale was appointed as the secretary of the legislature in 2015. Shortly after his appointment, he suspended the legislature s former acting head, Josiah Silinda, and chief financial officer, Sello Senyane, and several managers. A source within the legislature told this journalist that both Silinda and Senyane were suspended for their refusal to give contracts to legislature politicians and their friends. Sedibe said that it has become a trend for the authorities in Mpumalanga to remove accounting officers and chief financial officers in order to loot state resources. The chopping and changing of HODs (accounting officers) in departments to cover up or kill the corruption cases has been noticed and taken into serious consideration and scrutiny. Every time there is a serious case of fraud and corruption against the HOD of a particular department they deliberately change that HOD to other departments or state owned entities, said Sedibe. Last year the EFF leader opened criminal cases against both the Speaker of the legislature Thandi Shongwe and Mwale for alleged fraud and corruption.